What is a flux footprint and how is it represented mathematically?
A flux footprint represents the area upwind of a measurement point on the surface that contributes to the measured flux at that point. In a two-dimensional context (including both along-wind and crosswind dispersion), it can be represented as a source-weight density or footprint value for every location relative to the flux measurement. Mathematically, for a measurement at height $z_m$, the 2D footprint function $f(x, y, z_m)$ at an upwind distance $x$ and crosswind distance $y$ can be expressed as a combination of the crosswind-integrated footprint $f_y(x, z_m)$ and the crosswind distribution $D_y(x, y)$, often as a linear combination: $f(x, y, z_m) = f_y(x, z_m) \cdot D_y(x, y)$. The crosswind-integrated footprint is obtained by integrating the 2D footprint function over the crosswind direction.

How are footprint values calculated in modeling?
Different approaches exist for determining the footprint function. One common method, particularly in Lagrangian stochastic models, involves simulating the trajectories of a large number of particles released from the measurement height and tracking where they "touch down" on the surface. The footprint value at a given location is then related to the number and properties (like vertical velocity) of particles that originated from that area and reached the sensor. For example, a simple method involves gridding the upwind area and summing the footprint values of particle touchdowns within each grid cell. More advanced methods, like the density kernel estimation, treat touchdown locations as data points and use kernel functions (such as Gaussian or biweight kernels) to create a continuous distribution of touchdown density, which is then related to the footprint.

What meteorological parameters are crucial for footprint prediction models?
Several meteorological parameters significantly influence the size, shape, and location of a flux footprint. Key parameters include measurement height ($z_m$), roughness length ($z_0$), mean wind speed at measurement height ($u_{mean}$), boundary layer height ($h$), Obukhov length ($L$), standard deviation of lateral velocity fluctuations ($\sigma_v$), and friction velocity ($u_*$). These parameters, particularly $z_m/L$ (related to atmospheric stability), $z_m/h$ (relative measurement height within the boundary layer), and the wind profile ($u(z)$), dictate turbulent mixing and transport, thereby shaping the footprint.

How does atmospheric stability affect the footprint?
Atmospheric stability plays a critical role in turbulent transport and dispersion, directly impacting the flux footprint. In unstable conditions (convective), characterized by significant vertical mixing, the footprint tends to be broader and extend further downwind, with the peak located closer to the sensor. In stable conditions, with suppressed vertical mixing, the footprint is narrower and elongated, with the peak shifted further upwind. Neutral conditions represent an intermediate state. Different stability regimes (convective, neutral, stable) result in distinct footprint climatologies, showing varying areas contributing to the measured flux.